# note-app
Note App
This is a simple Note App built with Node.js and PostgreSQL. The project allows users to create, view, edit notes.

Features -

Create new notes
View existing notes by id and by title substring
Edit notes

Prerequisites
Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

Node.js (v14.x or later)
npm (Node Package Manager)
PostgreSQL (v12.x or later)

Setup
1. Clone the repository:

git clone  https://github.com/Ayushikhare431/note-app.git
git checkout develop

2. Navigate to the project directory:
cd note-app

3. Install the dependencies:
npm install

4. Set up the PostgreSQL database:
Create a PostgreSQL database:

Open your PostgreSQL client (e.g., psql, pgAdmin , dbeaver) and create a new database:
[Setup the dbeaver congigurations i.e username & password]

CREATE DATABASE note_app;
Update the database configuration:

In your project, create the .env file inside src/ and update it with your PostgreSQL credentials:
# Database Details
DATABASE_NAME = 'your_db_name'
DB_USERNAME = 'your_db_username'
DB_PASSWORD = 'your_db_password'
DB_PORT = 'your_db_port'
DB_HOST = localhost
DB_DIALECT = postgres
DB_ENV = local


# Server Details
SERVER_PORT = 3000



5. Run database script:
 you can manually create the tables in the database using SQL scripts.

 CREATE TABLE notes_db.public.note (
    id bigint GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY PRIMRY KEY,
    title varchar NOT null unique,
    description varchar NOT null,
    created_at timestamp not null default now(),
    updated_at timestamp not null default now()
 )

6. Run the application:

npm start
The application should now be running at http://localhost:3000.

Project Structure
src/: Contains the source code for the application.
node_modules/: Contains the Node.js dependencies.
config/: Contains configuration files (e.g., database configuration).
migrations/: Contains database migration scripts.
package.json: Lists the project dependencies and scripts.
README.md: This file.

Usage
Once the application is running, you can access it via http://localhost:3000 postman. Use the interface to create, view, edit notes.

1. create note path -> http://localhost:3000/notes/ 
  Method:POST
  Request body : {
    title:'title1',
    description:'description 1'
  } 

2. get note by id path -> http://localhost:3000/notes/1
   Method: GET

3. get notes by title substring  -> http://localhost:3000/notes?title=title 1
   Method1: GET

4. update notes by id ->http://localhost:3000/notes/1
Method:PUT
  Request body : {
    title:'title1 update',
    description:'description 1 update'
  } 

Testing
To run the test suite, use:


npm test


This README file now includes instructions for setting up a PostgreSQL database and configuring your application to connect to it. Adjust any paths or commands based on your actual project structure.

Note: The current test cases are failing due to an issue with the mocking setup. This is a known issue and i am working on it.